{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red14\green14\blue14;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c6667\c6667\c6667;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa200\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
This lab is based on Math Tutor, programming challenge 16 in Chapter 3, page 154 (7ed), page 152 (8ed, 9ed). The steps are:\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 1) Write code for a 3rd Grade math tutor program that provides simple addition questions.\'a0
\b Use only numbers in the range 0 to 100 inclusive in the math problems. No number should exceed 100 in the questions or answers.
\b0 \'a0Ask the student for how many questions to generate and provide that many questions. See chapter 3, pgs 128-130 (7ed), 133-136(8ed, 9ed) for code on how to generate random numbers. See chapter 5, top of page 267 (7ed), page 270 (8ed), page 271 (9ed) for code that will loop. Test this. (14 points max)
\f1\fs20 \

\f0\fs32 2) What if the user asks for 50 questions but wants to stop after 3? Allow the user to also quit the quiz at any time with a sentinel. A negative number would be a good sentinel because all valid answers are from 0 to 100. Do not ask: "Do you want another question? (y/n)" after each question. This makes the quiz tedious for the user. Instead, provide a sentinel to quit. Thus, the quiz quits when the total number of questions requested have been presented, OR, the user requests to quit early.\'a0 Test this. (16 points max)\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 3) Instead of asking for number of questions, keep generating questions until the answer given is a sentinel value which ends the quiz. (18 points max).
\f1\fs20 \

\f0\fs32 4) Provide a score at the end: number correct, number wrong, and percentage correct. (20 points max).
\f1\fs20 \

\f0\fs32 Extra credit: Generate addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division questions. Provide statistics on how the student did on each operation, and advise whether more study is recommended (22 points max).
\f1\fs20 \

\f0\fs32 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Submit one program file: TT10_L3_Lastname.cpp. Provide a header comment block; paste output at bottom.
\f1\fs20 \

\f0\b\fs32 IMPORTANT! All numbers involved in the math problems should be in the range 0 - 100.
\b0 \'a0This includes numbers for questions and answers. Example: 81 / 9 is a valid question, but 56 / 13 is not, because the answer is a weird fraction \'96 not suitable for a 3rd grader. 21 * 4 is a valid question, but 21 * 57 is not. The answers should be in the range of 0 - 100.\'a0
\b Test your code with 5 questions minimum.
\f1\b0\fs20 \
}